DN-Tools v1.1   12 Aug 2026    (v1.0: 26 Feb 2026)

acv
   acv invert  <input> <output>
             Flip a curve around the line x=128. Simulates the effects of inverting before printing.

   acv gradient <span> <input> <output>
             Return 128 plus the gradient of curve using points within <span> of x.

  -v, --pivot VALUE     Pivot value for contrast (default 128)

   With no arguments acv now drops into the interactive prompt after printing
   the usage text. invert and gradient tab-complete there.
chart
  --step-wedge          Generate a 21-segment step wedge or append one when
                        using --apply
  --read-wedge OUT_CSV  Read step wedge values from image and output CSV
  --apply CURVE OUTPUT  Apply curve to an image
  --size SIZE           Apply: resize maximum dimension to this size before
                        applying curve
  --progression PROGRESSION
                        Step wedge progression: linear, stops, inv_stops
                        (default linear)

   Wedge segments are numbered and labelled with value and density, beside a
   gradient strip and the white/black bars that --read-wedge uses to find the
   wedge in a photograph and square it up. linear steps evenly, stops steps in
   1/3 stop, inv_stops is the complement of stops.

   --apply reads .acv, .amp and .csv itself, so chart no longer needs acv. It
   rotates to portrait, pads with --margin, resizes with --size, applies the
   curve through an 8- or 16-bit LUT, and writes grayscale, 16-bit for .tif.
   With --step-wedge the wedge gets the same curve and is appended on the right.

   Blue noise shuffle retuned for better separation of adjacent levels. The
   variance chart reports deviation as a fraction of the estimated level rather
   than an absolute difference. --help hides the tuning options (--cell --line
   --border --margin --debug --variance --warpsize --segments); they still work.

plot
   Black background, square canvas, axes labelled Input and Output, white
   points.

expose
   New, and still a beginning. An SDL3 program that shows a sequence of images
   for one vsynced frame each. Build with make in expose/; not installed.

examples
   chartapplytest: generate a chart, apply a gamma curve with chart --apply,
   re-linearize and compare.

Fixed since v1.0
   -q/--quiet toggled debug output instead of turning it off, so a second -q at
   the prompt turned it back on. It is still sticky: once given, output stays
   off until acv restarts.
   acv linear's <error> is a fraction of the range, not a number of levels. The
   usage text, the man page and the parameter name all said otherwise.
   env.sh printed its paths every time it was sourced.

Incompatible with v1.0
   The blue noise ordering changed. A chart printed with v1.0 must be read with
   v1.0, or use the same --shuffle method other than blue_noise at both ends.
   chart --size is now the apply output size; the reader's warp canvas is
   --warpsize. --size is accepted and ignored in reader mode.
   chart --margin defaults to 40, was 80. It also sets --apply's white padding.
   acv writes the CSV header channel,x,y, was curve,x,y. Old files still read.

Documentation
   Both man pages and the README cover the new modes and options. man chart has
   a COMPATIBILITY section for the three chart changes above.
